We've talked about a definition for operational GRC,
and we've broadly talked about some of the differences
between operational GRC and security GRC.
But I think it's time we reach a definition for security GRC.
Now, I happen to like the OSG definition of GRC.
I think we can modify that to show the more tactical approach that
security GRC requires and then still demonstrate support for the organization.
Let's try this. Cybersecurity GRC is
the integrated collection of capabilities that enable
an organization to set and meet strategic goals,
that's governance, to address existing and emerging threats,
that's our risk, and then finally to meet our obligations,
that equates to compliance.
All of those, of course,
as they relate to security.
That definition, I think gets us to a more tactical view of the organization.
Now what do I mean by that?
What do I mean specifically about tactical?
Security GRC functions generally center on security controls.
While the mission of security GRC is to support the organization.
Day-to-day activities are focused on ensuring
the operational effectiveness and efficiency of controls that support that mission.
By controls, of course,
I mean actual security controls, firewalls,
data loss prevention mechanisms,
authentication, policies, and procedures, and more.
Now, how are we supporting the business mission as GRC professionals?
Here are a couple ways. Every time you
hear about a high-profile breach, what do you think?
You think that something failed.
We don't think, "Wow,
those hackers must have been amazing."
We think the company failed,
and sometimes that's the case.
Here are a couple of examples.
Take for instance, the May 2017 breach of Booz Allen Hamilton.
They reportedly exposed battlefield imagery and
other sensitive account information all by an unsecured AWS S3 bucket or
the 2015 breach of the OPM that
resulted in approximately 21.5 million records being stolen.
Now the government believes that was the result of
social engineering like a phishing attack.
Either of these issues may have been discovered before breach with healthy GRC practices.
That is how GRC supports the business's overall mission,
by helping to avoid control failure that leads to costly mistakes.
Now, that isn't to say that GRC would solve every potential breach before it occurs.
But in these cases,
security GRC may have identified controls that weren't working effectively,
might have identified the risks that could have led to better controls,
or had compliance obligations that would have
created a control to solve these challenges as well.